over the years Steve's made hundreds of
sea rescues to do it he has to maintain
peak fitness and whenever Steve goes
training
Bilbo goes to to battle against the
undercurrents in these waters lifeguards
must be able to swim 400 meters in under
seven and a half minutes something Bilbo
has no trouble with either
Bilbo thinks he's a lifeguard too
but it's no accident that Bilbo such a
capable swimmer
Newfoundlands have always been salty old
sea dogs their original job was to
effectively be best mate to a fisherman
he's a utility working dog in that has
many different skills he's got an innate
desire for some reason safe people
his obsession is swimming saving people
and doing what his master wants of him
which is pretty much a perfect dog used
to use them in the Moby Dick days on
whaling ships when the men used to row
out and try and harpoon the whale by
hand quite often those boats would get
capsized and the men thrown up into the
sea they would have then two or three of
these dogs on the mothership that they
let go and they'd dive into the sea swim
over to where the men were and they
would drag them back to the mothership
so it's a natural thing within these
dogs and when Steve gets tired
Bilbo comes into his own and pulls him
around for a couple more laps
unlike other dogs when the swim Bilbo
doesn't so much do our doggy paddle he
does more of a breaststroke where his
feet are going slightly to the side
he'll pull me around for hours on end in
the water just swimming up him down with
me hanging on to his haunches fantastic
Bilbo's the perfect design for a
life-saving dog webbed feet if I spread
his toes out you can see where his webs
are coming right down right down to his
end of his feet he's got a massive
paddle that he can pull with this tail
is so wide and heavy that he can use it
like a rudder he could put all his
effort into the paddling and she's uses
his tail to steer him right or left
laden with his swim and he's got this
fantastic waterproof coat and if you
look under here now you can see that
although he's been in the water all the
under here here it's completely dry so
in effect he's actually got his own
wetsuit
[Music]
you